DOCS-7700 adding content for edit pr. (#68)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/intro-platform-hosting.adoc

> = Anypoint Platform Hosting Options

Reviewer: After just scanning this whole topic set, I wonder if organizing it this way would better serve your intention:

= Anypoint Platform Hosting Options
Consider extending the intro. text to actually use the terms "control plane" and "runtime plane" in the intro paragraph, perhaps including the definition of each and how to choose?
OR...you could begin each Level 2 title with the definition and when to choose:
== Hosting in the Control Plane (what it is, when to choose?)
=== Hosting Options
=== Support Matrix
== Hosting in the Runtime Plane (what it is, when to choose?)
=== Hosting Options
=== Support Matrix
== Blah Blah using them together?

Totally an outsider's idea, only for your consideration....

Reviewer: Also, I realize that I am confused about what is being hosted where: is data being hosted, or Anypoint Platform? What is the "hostee" and which is the "host"?

Reviewer: All the following edits are based on keeping the current structure.
If you change the structure (and wording), I should look at it again.

Reviewer: And...this might be dopey, but I wonder if we need to clarify upfront that a control plane supports (hence, "control") runtime planes (local operations)?

Author: Hey Kim! Thanks a lot for the edits! The structure and how to best present this information is something that I have reviewed multiple times with PM. In fact, this is the 3rd draft of this content. I think this approach is the "least bad" of the other drafts. If I were to change the structure this would have to go back through PM review.

Author: Also, regarding control and runtime planes, these are concepts that we are introducing to explain groupings of Anypoint Platform features in order to describe where they are hosted and by whom. By hosting, I mean the physical location. These are not terms you will see in the product, though PM/Support/etc. do use them with customers. I don't think we should use them outside of this topic or certainly a small set of topics.

Author: In Runtime Manager, we would refer to "deployment targets" instead of runtime plane. In other docs we refer to Management Center or Design Center instead of control plane.

You can host different parts of Anypoint Platform in different locations, either in the cloud or in a physical data center. The best hosting option for your Anypoint Platform environment depends on your security, data privacy, and legal requirements. Different hosting options enable you to control the location where your and your customer's data is stored, processed, and managed. The data remains segregated within the physical location required by your companies IT policies and requirements.

== Control Plane vs Runtime Plane

> To understand the different hosting options, it is important to understand the concepts of control plane and runtime plane within the context of Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: Are control plane and runtime plane "concepts," terms, or actual things?
We refer to them as all three in this and following texts (terms="refers to" in the following descriptions).
```suggestion
To understand the different hosting options, it is important to understand the control plane and the runtime plane within the context of Anypoint Platform:
```

Author: They are abstractions that make it easier to discuss different types of product components and more specifically, where they are hosted. These terms are not used in our UI and should really only be used in this (and maybe a few other topics).

Author: I incorporated these edits.

image::intro-control-vs-runtime-planes.png[]

* Control plane
+

> Control plane refers to the components of the Anypoint Platform architecture you use to design, deploy, and manage APIs and Mule applications. The control plane contains product features and components that are part of the Anypoint Design Center, Anypoint Management Center and Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components of the Anypoint Platform architecture that you use to design, deploy, and manage APIs and Mule applications. The control plane contains product features and components that are part of Anypoint Design Center, Anypoint Management Center, and Anypoint Exchange.
```

Author: I incorporated these edits.

* Runtime plane
+

> Runtime plane refers to the components of the Anypoint Platform architecture where your APIs and Mule applications are deployed and made available to your users. The runtime plane includes the Mule runtime server and supporting services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The components of the Anypoint Platform architecture to which your APIs and Mule applications are deployed and made available to your users. The runtime plane includes the Mule runtime server and supporting services.
```

Author: I incorporated these edits.

> === Which Hosting Option is Right for You?

Reviewer: GLOBALLY avoid making titles into sentences:
```suggestion
=== Choosing a Hosting Option
```

> Anypoint Platform is designed to enable the control plane and runtime plane to be hosted independently. Depending on your requirements, you can choose from the following: 

Reviewer: So...this states that the planes are what is being hosted (by what?), rather than themselves being the hosts.
(Please forgive me if this is a big D'uh, while I verify my own understanding based on your text. Just ignore me if I am checking what is obvious to your audience.)

Author: It's the components within the planes, but the planes are really just wrappers or groupings of similarly functioning components of the Anypoint Platform.

Author: They are really there to avoid having to repeat Design Center, Management Center, Exchange everytime. Also, according to Sundip these are industry standard terms. They are also terms that PM and support use with customers, but our use should be reserved specifically for this context. Elsewhere we should be more specific and use (if possible) what appears in the UI.

> * Use Anypoint Platform in the MuleSoft-managed control plane and runtime plane

Reviewer: Add period:
```suggestion
* Use Anypoint Platform in the MuleSoft-managed control plane and runtime plane.
```

Reviewer: So...when describing the two options in the list earlier, should we list the types of control and runtime planes: MuleSoft-managed, local, whatever else?

Author: I think that would be kind of un-wieldy, but is kind of what Sundip's terminology list would imply.

Author: Added periods!

> * Host and manage the runtime plane with your own infrastructure while connecting it with the MuleSoft-managed control plane

Reviewer: ditto
```suggestion
* Host and manage the runtime plane within your own infrastructure while connecting it with the MuleSoft-managed control plane.
```

Author: Fixed.

> * Host both the control plane and runtime plane locally withint your own infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Host both the control plane and runtime plane locally within your infrastructure.
```

Author: Fixed

> See <<Control Plane and Runtime Plane Support Matrix>> for information on which runtime plane hosting options are supported in each control plane option.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "information on" with "information about" in all cases.
```suggestion
See <<Control Plane and Runtime Plane Support Matrix>> for information about which runtime plane hosting options are supported in each control plane option.
```

Author: Thanks! The devil is in the details!

== Control Plane Hosting Options

MuleSoft provides the following environments for the control plane:

* US Cloud (default)
+
In US Cloud, the control plane is physically hosted within the United States.

* EU Cloud
+

> In the EU Cloud, the control plane is physically hosted within the European Union.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In EU Cloud, the control plane is physically hosted within the European Union.
```

* MuleSoft Government Cloud
+
MuleSoft Government Cloud is a FedRAMP-compliant instance of the control plane that’s managed by MuleSoft and is suitable for government agencies.
+
See xref:gov-cloud::index.adoc[About Government Cloud] for more information.

* Customer-Hosted Control Plane
+

> MuleSoft also enables you to host the control plane within your own data center. Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition is a version of Anypoint Platform that supports hosting the control plane within a user-managed data center. This enables you to control the environment where your assets and metadata are stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft also enables you to host the control plane within your own data center. Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition (Anypoint Platform PCE) is a version of Anypoint Platform that supports hosting the control plane within a user-managed data center. This enables you to control the environment where your assets and metadata are stored.
```

Author: Fixed (this is different than when I worked on PCE)

+

> Private Cloud Edition supports deploying to Mule runtime servers hosted in a standalone environment. You can host the control plane in a physical server, a virtual server, or a 3rd-party cloud environment such as Amazon Web Services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform PCE supports deploying to Mule runtime servers hosted in a standalone environment. You can host the control plane in a physical server, a virtual server, or a third-party cloud environment such as Amazon Web Services. 
```

Author: Fixed.

+
See xref:private-cloud::/latest/index.adoc[About Anypoint Platform PCE] for more information.
+

> Some Anypoint Platform components are not supported in Private Cloud Edition. See the <<Support Matrix for Control Plane Hosting Options>> for details.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace the abbreviation "Private Cloud Edition" with "Anypoint Platform PCE."

Reviewer: We generally do not want to cross-refer to a directly following topic; however, in the world of reuse, we will. Your choice re. what to do for now.

Author: Ah, I don't like doing this, but we really need to be explicit in this topic about what is and is not supported in each option.

=== Support Matrix for Control Plane Hosting Options

> Not all Anypoint Platform components are supported in all cloud environments. The following table shows which component is supported by each environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all Anypoint Platform components are supported in all cloud environments. The following table shows which environments support each component:
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

[%header,cols="5*a"]
|===

> | Anypoint Platform Component | US Cloud | EU Cloud | MuleSoft Government Cloud | Private Cloud Edition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Anypoint Platform Component | US Cloud | EU Cloud | MuleSoft Government Cloud | Anypoint Platform PCE
```

Author: Done. Again, in my day we were allowed to use PCE. It's nice to see they have a cleaner product name.

| API Designer | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Anypoint Studio | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Flow Designer | Y | Y | N | N
| Anypoint Exchange | Y | Y | Y | Y

> | Anypoint API Community Manager* | Y | Y | N | N

Reviewer: Is there a text that is supposed to go with *?

Author: That text was removed. Removing the *

| Anypoint Partner Manager | Y | N | N | N
| Access management | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Analytics | Y | Y | N | N
| Anypoint API Manager | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Anypoint Runtime Manager | Y | Y | Y | Y
| Anypoint Monitoring | Y | Y | N | N
| Secrets manager | Y | Y | N | N
| Anypoint Visualizer | Y | Y | N | N
| Anypoint Security edge policies | Y | Y | N | N
| Anypoint Security tokenization | Y | Y | N | N
| CloudHub runtimes | Y | Y | Y | N
| Runtime Fabric | Y | Y | N | N

> | Customer-hosted Runtimes | Y | Y | N | Y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Customer-hosted runtimes | Y | Y | N | Y
```

Author: Done.

|===

== Runtime Plane Hosting Options

MuleSoft provides three different options for hosting the Anypoint Platform runtime plane:

* CloudHub
+
CloudHub is MuleSoft's cloud-based environment for hosting the Mule runtime server and related services. CloudHub enables you to deploy an API or a Mule application on a platform that’s managed by MuleSoft.
+

> CloudHub also provides high-availability, clustering and failover of your APIs and Mule applications and load balances traffic to them. See xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub.adoc[CloudHub] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudHub also provides high availability, clustering, and failover of your APIs and Mule applications and performs traffic load balancing traffic for them. See xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub.adoc[CloudHub] for more information.
```
Yikes, there's a topic titled just "CloudHub"?

Author: Fixed. Yes, sadly there is a topic titled CloudHub. ;-)

+

> CloudHub can only be managed by the Cloud control plane in the same environment (US Cloud, EU Cloud, or GovCloud).

Reviewer: Do you mean AWS GovCloud? If you mean MuleSoft, it must be "MuleSoft Government Cloud". And the others do not include capital for cloud:
```suggestion
CloudHub can be managed only by the version of the cloud control plane that exists in the same environment (US cloud, EU cloud, or MuleSoft Government Cloud).
```

Author: Fixed.

* Runtime Fabric
+

> Runtime Fabric is a container service that enables you to run Mule applications and API gateways within a data center or 3rd-party cloud environment that you control and manage. Runtime Fabric can be installed on a set of physical servers, virtual machines, or within Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure.

Reviewer: 3rd > third, globally:
```suggestion
Runtime Fabric is a container service that enables you to run Mule applications and API gateways within a data center or third-party cloud environment that you control and manage. You can install Runtime Fabric on a set of physical servers, virtual machines, or within Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure.
```

Author: Fixed

+

> Runtime Fabric comes bundled with technology such as Docker and Kubernetes to offer benefits such as high-availability, failover, clustering, and load balancing. See xref:runtime-fabric::/latest/index.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Overview] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Fabric comes bundled with technology such as Docker and Kubernetes, which offer benefits such as high availability, failover, clustering, and load balancing. See xref:runtime-fabric::/latest/index.adoc[Anypoint Runtime Fabric Overview] for more information.
```

Reviewer: You don't need to hyphenate "high availability" unless it is used as a compound-adjective, before a noun object.

Author: Fixed.

+

> Runtime Fabric can only be managed by Cloud control planes (US Cloud, EU Cloud). MuleSoft Government Cloud and Private Cloud Edition do not support Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: Placement of "only" should be directly before what it modifies:
```suggestion
Runtime Fabric can be managed only by cloud control planes (US cloud and EU cloud). MuleSoft Government Cloud and Anypoint Platform PCE do not support Runtime Fabric.
```

Author: Fixed.

* Standalone Runtimes
+

> The standalone option enables you to host Mule runtime engine server and related services in an environment that you manage. Using standalone runtimes, the Mule Runtime Server can run on a physical server, a virtual machine, or within a 3rd-party cloud installation like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standalone option enables you to host Mule runtime engine server and related services in an environment that you manage. Using standalone runtimes, the Mule runtime server can run on a physical server, a virtual machine, or within a third-party cloud installation like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
```

Author: Thanks! Done.

+

> When using standalone runtimes, you are also responsible for providing the framework for high-availability, failover, clustering and load balancing. See xref:mule-runtime::latest/mule-standalone[Run Mule Runtime Engine On-Premises]

Reviewer: ditto globals:
```suggestion
When using standalone runtimes, you are also responsible for providing the framework for high availability, failover, clustering, and load balancing. See xref:mule-runtime::latest/mule-standalone[Run Mule Runtime Engine On-Premises]
```

Author: Fixed globally!

+

> Standalone runtimes can be managed by Cloud control plans (US Cloud, EU Cloud) or a customer-hosted control plane (PCE). MuleSoft Government Cloud does not support standalone runtimes.

Reviewer: ditto globals:
I just thought of changing this repeated sentence to active voice, so retrofit if you can:
```suggestion
You can manage standalone runtimes by using cloud control plans (US cloud and EU cloud) or a customer-hosted control plane (Anypoint Platform PCE). MuleSoft Government Cloud does not support standalone runtimes.
```

Author: Resolved.

=== Support Matrix for Runtime Plane Hosting Options

> Not all Anypoint Platform components are supported in each of the Runtime Plane hosting options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not all Anypoint Platform components are supported in each of the runtime plane hosting options:
```

[%header,cols="4*a"]
|===
| Anypoint Platform Component | CloudHub | Runtime Fabric | Standalone
| Mule runtime engine | Y | Y | Y
| Anypoint MQ | Y | N | N
| Anypoint Object Store | Y | N | N
| Connectors | Y | Y | Y
|===

* Anypoint MQ and Anypoint Object Store
+
Runtime Fabric and standalone runtimes do not support Anypoint MQ or Anypoint Object Store. Instead, Runtime Fabric and standalone runtimes support Mule clustering. On Runtime Fabric, multiple replicas of the same application can share objects. On standalone runtimes, multiple Mule runtime engines can share objects with each other.
+
See xref:mule-runtime::choosing-the-right-clustering-topology[Cluster Runtime Instances]

* Connector Support
+

> Connectors that retrieve and manipulate files on the file system are not supported, for example the file connector. Mule applications deployed to Runtime Fabric do not have access to the file system of the virtual machine nor the network mount. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors that retrieve and manipulate files on the file system are not supported, for example, Anypoint Connector for File (File Connector). Mule applications deployed to Runtime Fabric do not have access to the file system of the virtual machine or the network mount. 
```

Author: Resolved. Thanks for letting me know the official name of that connector!

== Control Plane and Runtime Plane Support Matrix

> The following table lists which runtime plane options are supported in each control plane hosting option.

Reviewer: colon before display element:
```suggestion
The following table lists which runtime plane options are supported in each control plane hosting option:
```

[%header,cols="5*a"]
|===
| Runtime Plane | US Cloud | EU Cloud| Government Cloud | Private Cloud Edition
| CloudHub | Y | Y | Y | N

> | Standalone Runtimes | Y | Y | N | N

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Standalone runtimes | Y | Y | N | N
```

Author: Resolved
